How do you handle change as a manager?
Do you jump at the chance
to introduce something new to your team?
Or does the thought of change bring up negative feelings?
The truth is that change will happen in our workplaces.
Though it can be uncomfortable,
it is how we make our businesses and teams better.
Change is inevitable, but you don't have to see it
as a bad thing.
As a manager, how can you effectively lead your team
through change?
Let's go over some strategies.
Many issues that managers encounter
have to do with communication.
How do you handle miscommunication?
What do you do when rumors
and misinformation upset your team?
It's essential to keep communication open.
As a manager, you're in a position
to distribute information clearly.
You can explain to employees why a change is necessary,
how it affects everyone, what roles each person will play,
and how they will benefit.
Another related challenge is a lack of feedback
from your team.
How can you ensure communication happens both ways?
This is why it's essential to create
a psychologically safe work environment.
When your team feels safe, they're more likely
to communicate clearly and commit to change.
What does safety look like in a workplace?
People wanna feel heard, valued, and understood.
While every team and leader is unique,
respect should always be a priority.
Earn your team's commitment by being open and genuine.
So what do you do when an employee is open with you
and they don't want to change?
Some leaders might respond with defensiveness or authority
but consider embracing resistance instead.
When an employee disagrees with you,
you have the opportunity to an alternative perspective.
Perhaps they see something you don't
or maybe they need support in a way you haven't anticipated.
Resistance can be uncomfortable, but it also opens doors
for new information and rapport building with your team.
Let's say your team is excited about change
so much so that you jump into multiple transitions
only to find yourselves completely overwhelmed.
Have you experienced this?
How can you preemptively address team burnout?
The answer is to manage expectations early with your team.
Too many transitions at once
can cancel out the benefits of change.
As a leader, set reasonable objectives for your team
and keep everyone on the same page.
Also, encourage employees to prioritize
their mental health and wellbeing.
Managing expectations can help keep your team
from feeling exhausted by multiple changes.
Leadership means keeping in touch with employees
and staying aware of how they respond to transitions.
But what about if you, the manager are feeling burned out?
What kind of strategies can you use?
This is why it's essential to remember your role.
You can't control every aspect of change
or how your employees feel about it
but you can control how you support your team
and lead your collective response to change.
Remember as you encourage your team
to maintain their mental health
you are also responsible for your own wellbeing.
Change is difficult for everyone,
don't forget to care for yourself.
Change can be exciting and inspiring.
It's a key ingredient to making progress in your work.
Next time your team encounters a change,
think of yourself as a leader, a guide and a cultivator.
You and your team are growing together
and you have a unique role to play
as their manager and leader.